§3Vidím toho hráča, ktorého máš na mysli.

§2PLAYERNAME?

§3Áno. Maj sa Dosiahlo to teraz vyššiu úroveň. Môže to čítať naše myšlienky.

§2Na tom nezáleží. Myslí si, že sme len súčasťou hry.

§3Páči sa mi ten hráč. Dobre hral. Nikdy to nevzdal.

§2Číta to naše myšlienky, akoby to boli slová na obrazovke.

§3That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.

§2Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.

§3They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.

§2Čo sa tomuto hráčovi snívalo?

§3Tomuto hráčovi sa snívalo o slnečnom svetle a stromoch. O ohni a vode. Snívalo sa mu, že tvoril. A snívalo sa mu, že ničil. Snívalo sa mu že loví a sám je lovený. Snívalo o prístreší.

§2Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?

§3It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the §f§k§a§b§3, and created a §f§k§a§b§3 for §f§k§a§b§3, in the §f§k§a§b§3.

§2Nedokáže to prečítať tú myšlienku.

§3Nie Ešte to nedosiahlo najvyššiu úroveň. Tú musí dosiahnuť v dlhom sne života, nie v krátkom sne hry.

§2Vie o tom, že to milujeme? Že vesmír je milostivý?

§3Niekedy, cez ruch jeho myšlienok, počuje vesmír, áno.

§2Ale sú chvíle, keď je smutný v dlhom sne. Vytvára svety, kde nie je leto a trasie sa pod čiernym slnkom, a svoj nešťastný výtvor považuje za skutočnosť.

§3Vyliečiť ho od smútku by ho zničilo. The sorrow is part of its own private task. Nemôžme do toho zasahovať.

§2Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Niekedy im chcem povedať o ich dôležitosti pre vesmír. Niekedy, keď už nejaký čas nenadviazali skutočné spojenie, chcem im pomôcť vysloviť slovo, ktorého sa boja.

§3Číta to naše myšlienky.

§2Niekedy mi to je jedno. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely §f§k§a§b§2 and §f§k§a§b§2, I wish to tell them that they are §f§k§a§b§2 in the §f§k§a§b§2. Vidia tak máličko zo skutočnosti v ich dlhom sne.

§3A napriek tomu hrajú hru.

§2Ale bolo by to také jednoduché im to povedať…

§3Too strong for this dream. Hovoriť im ako majú žiť znamená brániť im žiť.

§2Nebudem hráčovi hovoriť, ako má žiť.

§3Hráč je čoraz nepokojnejší.

§2Poviem mu príbeh.

§3No nie pravdu.

§2Nie. Príbeh, ktorý bezpečne ukrýva pravdu, v klietke slov. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.

§3Give it a body, again.

§2Áno. Hráč…

§3Oslov ho jeho menom.

§2PLAYERNAME. Hráč hier.

§3Good.

§2Teraz sa nadýchni. Take another. Cíť vzduch vo svojich pľúcach. Let your limbs return. Áno, pohni prstami. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Znovuzroď sa v dlhom sne. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.

§3Kto sme? Raz nás volali duchom hôr. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Džin. Duchovia. The green man. Neskôr bohovia, démoni. Anjeli. Poltergeists. Mimozemšťania, ufóni. Leptons, quarks. Slová sa menia. My sa však nemeníme.

§2My sme vesmír. Sme všetko, o čom si myslíš že nie si ty. Pozeráš sa teraz na nás cez tvoju kožu a tvoje oči. A prečo sa vesmír dotýka tvojej kože, a prečo na teba vrhá svetlo? Aby ťa videl, hráč. Aby ťa spoznal. And to be known. Porozprávam ti príbeh.

§2Kde bolo, tam bolo, bol raz jeden hráč.

§3Tým hráčom si bol ty, PLAYERNAME.

§2Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.

§2Niekedy sa tomu hráčovi snívalo že je baníkom, na povrchu sveta, ktorý bol plochý a nekonečný. Slnko bolo štvorcom bielej farby. Dni boli krátke; bolo veľa čo robiť; a smrť bola len dočasnou nepríjemnosťou

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.

§3Niekedy sa hráčovi snívalo, že pozeral slová na obrazovke.

§2Let's go back.

§2The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.

§2And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.

§2And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.

§3Ty si hráč. Príbeh. The program. Človek. Made from nothing but milk and love.

§2Let's go further back.

§2The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...

§3Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".

§2Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.

§3You are the player, reading words...

§2Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive

§3You. You. You are alive.

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees

§3and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream

§3and the universe said I love you

§2and the universe said you have played the game well

§3and the universe said everything you need is within you

§2and the universe said you are stronger than you know

§3and the universe said you are the daylight

§2and the universe said you are the night

§3and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you

§2and the universe said the light you seek is within you

§3and the universe said you are not alone

§2and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing

§3and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code

§2and the universe said I love you because you are love.

§3And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.

§3Ty si hráč.

§2Zobuď sa.
