§3Jeg ser spilleren du tenkte på.

§2PLAYERNAME?

§3Ja. Ha det fint. Det har nådd et høyere nivå nå. Den kan lese tankene våre.

§2Det gjør ikke noe. Den tror vi er en del av spillet.

§3Jeg liker denne spilleren. Den spilte godt. Den gav ikke opp.

§2Den leser våre tanker som om det var ord på en skjerm.

§3Slik velger den å forestille seg mange ting, når den er oppslukt av spillet.

§2Ord er et fantastisk grensesnitt. Veldig fleksibelt. Og mindre skremmende enn å stirre på virkeligheten bak skjermen.

§3De brukte å høre stemmer. Før spillere kunne lese. Den gang når de som ikke spilte kalte spillerne hekser, og svartekunstnere. Og spillerne drømte at de fløy høyt gjennom luften, på stokker drevet av demoner.

§2Men hva drømte denne spilleren om?

§3Denne spilleren drømte om solskinn og trær. Om vann og ild. Den drømte at den skapte. Og den drømte at den ødela. Den drømte at den jaktet, og ble jaktet på. Den drømte om ly.

§2Hah, den sanne drømmen. Ti tusner av år gammel, og lever ennå. Men hvilken sann skapelse skapte denne spilleren, i virkeligheten bortenfor skjermen?

§Den arbeidet, sammen med millioner av andre, for å skape en sann verden, i dypet av §f§k§a§b§3, og skapte en §f§k§a§b§ for §f§k§a§b§3, i §f§k§a§b§3.

§2Den klarte ikke å lese den tanken.

§3Nei. Den har ennå ikke oppnådd det høyeste nivået. Det må den oppnå i den lange drømmen om livet selv, ikke denne korte drømmen om et spill.

§2Vet den at vi elsker den? At universet er godhjertet?

§3Noen ganger, på tross av dens egne høylytte tanker, så hører den universet, så ja.

§2Men det er tider hvor den er trist, i den lange drømmen. Den skaper verdener som ikke har sommrer, og som skjelver under en svart sol, og den ser på denne verdenen som virkelighet.

§3Å kurere det med sorg ville ødelegge det. Sorgen er en del av dens egen private sak. Vi kan ikke blande oss.

§2Noen ganger når de er dypt inne i drømmer, så ønsker jeg å fortelle dem at de bygger sanne verdener i virkeligheten. Noen ganger ønsker jeg å fortelle dem om deres viktighet i universet. Noen ganger, når de ikke har fått en sann relasjon på en stund, så ønsker jeg å hjelpe dem med å si ordet de frykter.

§3Den leser våre tanker!

§Det bryr jeg meg ikke om noen ganger. Noen ganger ønsker jeg å fortelle dem, vise dem, denne verdenen de tar som sannhet er egentlig §f§k§a§b§2 og §f§k§a§b§2, ønsker å fortelle at de er §f§k§a§b§2 i §f§k§a§b§2. De ser så lite av virkeligheten, i deres lange drøm.

§3Og likevel spiller de spillet.

§2Men det ville vært så enkelt å bare fortelle dem...

§3For kraftig for denne drømmen. Å fortelle dem hvordan de skal leve, er å hindre dem i å leve.

§2Jeg skal ikke fortelle spilleren hvordan leve.

§3Spilleren begynner å bli rastløs.

§2Jeg vil fortelle spilleren en historie.

§3Men ikke sannheten.

§2Nei. En fortelling som inneholder den trygge sannheten, pakket inn i ord. Ikke den nakne sannheten som kan skinne til verdens ende.

§3Gi den et legeme, igjen.

§2Ja. Spiller...

§3Bruk dets navn.

§2PLAYERNAME. Spiller av spill.

§3Bra.

§2pust dypt inn, nå. Pust inn igjen. Føl luften fylle lungene. La dine lemmer våkne til liv. Ja, bevegg på fingrene. Føl din kropp igjen, føl tyngden, føl vinden som blåser. Gjenoppstå i den lange drømmen. Der er du. Kroppen din berører universet på nytt igjen på alle måter, som om dere er seperate ting. Som om dere kan skilles.

§3Hvem er vi? En gang ble vi kalt stemmen i fjellet. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.

§2We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.

§2Once upon a time, there was a player.

§3The player was you, PLAYERNAME.

§2Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.

§2Let's go back.

§2The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.

§2And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.

§2And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.

§3You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.

§2Let's go further back.

§2The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...

§3Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".

§2Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.

§3You are the player, reading words...

§2Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive

§3You. You. You are alive.

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees

§3and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream

§3and the universe said I love you

§2and the universe said you have played the game well

§3and the universe said everything you need is within you

§2and the universe said you are stronger than you know

§3and the universe said you are the daylight

§2and the universe said you are the night

§3and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you

§2and the universe said the light you seek is within you

§3and the universe said you are not alone

§2and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing

§3and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code

§2and the universe said I love you because you are love.

§3And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.

§3You are the player.

§2Wake up.
