§3Eu vad jucatorul pe care l-ai spus.

§2PLAYERNAME?

§3Da. Aveţi grijă. A atins un nivel mai ridicat acum. Ne poate citi gândurile.

§2Asta nu conteaza. Gândește că facem parte din joc.

§3Imi place acest jucator. A jucat bine. Nu a renunţat.

§2Citeste gândurile noastre ca si cum ar fi cuvinte pe un ecran.

§3Așa alege să-și imagineze multe lucruri, când e adânc în visul unui joc.

§2Cuvintele fac o interfata minunata. Foarte flexibilă. Şi mai puţin terifiant decât să te uiţi la realitatea din spatele ecranului.

§3Ei auzeau voci. Înainte ca jucătorii să poată citi. Pe vremea când cei care nu se jucau au chemat vrăjitoarele şi secţiile de război. Jucătorii visau că au zburat prin aer, pe beţe alimentate de demoni.

§2Ce a visat acest jucator?

§3Acest jucator viseaza la lumina soarelui si copaci. De foc și apă. A visat să fie creat. Şi a visat că a fost distrusă. A visat-o vânată, şi a fost vânată. A visat la adăpost.

§2Hah, interfata originala. Un milion de ani şi încă funcţionează. Dar ce structură adevărată a creat acest jucător, în realitatea din spatele ecranului?

§3A functionat, cu alte cateva milioane, pentru a sculpta o lume adevarata intr-un plug din §f§k§a§b§3, si si ai creat un §f§k§a§b§3 pentru §f§a§b§3, in §f§k§a§b§3.

§2Nu poate citi acel gând.

§3Nu. Încă nu a atins cel mai înalt nivel. Acest lucru trebuie să înfăptuiască în visul lung al vieţii, nu visul scurt al unui joc.

§2Stiu ca ne place asta? Că universul e amabil?

§3Uneori, prin zgomotul gândurilor sale, aude universul, da.

§2Dar exista momente in care este trista, in visul lung. Creează lumi care nu au vară şi care se află sub un soare negru, şi îşi ia tristul creaţie pentru realitate.

§3Pentru a o vindeca de tristeţe, s-ar putea distruge. Această tristețe face parte din propria sa sarcină privată. Nu putem interveni.

§2Uneori cand sunt in strada, vreau sa le spun ca ei construiesc lumi adevarate in realitate. Uneori vreau să le spun de importanța lor pentru univers. Uneori, când nu au avut o legătură reală într-o perioadă, vreau să îi ajut să vorbească cuvântul de care se tem.

§3Ne citeste gândurile.

§2Uneori nu imi pasa. Uneori doresc să le spun, această lume pe care o iei pentru adevăr este doar §f§k§a§b§2 și §f§k§a§b§2, Doresc să le spun că sunt §f§k§a§b§2 în §f§k§a§b§2. Ei văd atât de puţină realitate în visul lor lung.

§3Si totusi se joaca in joc.

§2Dar ar fi atat de usor sa ii spun...

§3Prea puternic pentru acest vis. A le spune cum să trăiască înseamnă a-i împiedica să trăiască.

§2Nu voi spune jucatorului cum sa traiasca.

§3Jucatorul creste linistit.

§2Voi spune jucatorului o poveste.

§3Dar nu adevarul.

§2Nu. O poveste care conține adevărul în siguranță, într-o cușcă de cuvinte. Nu adevărul liber care poate arde la orice distanţă.

§3Da-i un corp, din nou.

§2Da. Jucator...

§3Foloseste numele.

§2PLAYERNAME. Jucător de jocuri.

§3Bun.

§2Ia o aer, acum. Ia altul. Simțiți aer în plămâni. Lăsaţi membrele să se întoarcă. Da, mişcă-ţi degetele. Au un corp din nou, sub gravitaţie, în aer. Revenire la visul lung. Iată-i. Corpul tău atingând universul din nou la fiecare punct, ca și cum ai fi lucruri separate. Ca şi cum am fi lucruri separate.

§3Cine suntem noi? Odată ce am fost numiţi spiritul muntelui. Tata soare, luna mamă. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.

§2We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.

§2Once upon a time, there was a player.

§3The player was you, PLAYERNAME.

§2Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.

§2Let's go back.

§2The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.

§2And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.

§2And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.

§3You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.

§2Let's go further back.

§2The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...

§3Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".

§2Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.

§3You are the player, reading words...

§2Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive

§3You. You. You are alive.

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees

§3and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream

§3and the universe said I love you

§2and the universe said you have played the game well

§3and the universe said everything you need is within you

§2and the universe said you are stronger than you know

§3and the universe said you are the daylight

§2and the universe said you are the night

§3and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you

§2and the universe said the light you seek is within you

§3and the universe said you are not alone

§2and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing

§3and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code

§2și Universul a spus că te iubesc pentru că tu ești dragoste.

§3And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.

§3Tu ești jucătorul.

§2Trezește-te.
