§3この人が、例のプレイヤーか。

§2PLAYERNAMEのこと？

§3そう。 気をつけろよ、 もうずいぶんレベルが上がったみたいだ。 僕らの考えは読まれているんだから。

§2別にいいよ。 僕らはゲームの一部だと思われてるんだろうし。

§3僕はこのプレイヤー嫌いじゃないな。 あきらめないで、 たくさん遊んだじゃないか。

§2僕らの思考が画面上の文字みたいに読まれてるね。

§3ゲームという夢にのめりこんでいる時、プレイヤーは言葉をつかっていろいろな物事を想像するらしい。

§2言葉はとても柔軟で素晴らしいインターフェイスだね。 その上、 画面の外の現実を直視するより全然怖くない。

§3文字で読めるようになる前には 声を使ってたんだぞ。 ゲームをしない人がゲームをする人たちを魔法使いとか賢者とか呼んで、 悪魔の杖に乗って空を飛ぶ夢を見ていた頃の話だ。

§2このプレイヤーは何の夢を見たんだろう？

§3陽の光と木の夢。 それに火と水。 夢を見ては、作る。 夢を見ては、壊す。 夢を見ては、狩る。時々狩られたりしたけど。 あとは安全な場所の夢だ。

§2ふーん、元祖インターフェイスか。 100万年も昔の物なのにまだちゃんと動く。 でもプレイヤーは、画面の外の現実で、本当はどんなものを作ったんだろう？

§3それは、100万の人と一緒に§8§k/%<@§d§k<§8§k(§3の層の中で真実の世界を彫り上げるために働いた。そして、§d§k-\\§8§k&§d§k?&§8§k;§3で§8§k^1'%§d§k'§3のために§8§k'§d§k>.§3を構築した。

§2これはプレイヤーには読めないね。

§3そう、 まだ最高レベルまで到達していないから。 ゲームの中の短い夢じゃなくて、人生の長い夢を叶えなくてはいけない。

§2プレイヤーは僕らの好意を知っているの？ 宇宙は寛容だってことを？

§3おそらく。プレイヤーは宇宙の思いのノイズを聞いている。

§2でもプレイヤーの長い夢の中には、時に悲しいこともある。 夏が訪れず、黒い太陽の下で凍え、自分が作った悲しさを現実と思ってしまうことがある。

§3だがその悲しさを外から癒すと、プレイヤーは壊れてしまう。 悲しみはプレイヤー自身が乗り越えるもののひとつで、 外から干渉できることではない。

§2プレイヤーがあまりに夢に浸っていると、時々教えたくなるんだ。プレイヤーは現実に本当の世界を作り上げていることを。 その存在が宇宙にとって大切であることを。 もし本当の絆を持てないときは、恐くて口に出せないでいる言葉を言う手助けをしたくなる。

§3おい、プレイヤーに読まれているぞ。

§2プレイヤーのことなんかどうでもいい時もあるけど、 教えてあげたい時もある。現実だと思っている世界は本当はただの§d§k'§8§k,3§d§k@(§2で、しかも§8§k'§d§k%$§8§k&§d§k|#§2だけだってこと。プレイヤーは§d§k14§8§k<§2の中では§d§k];\\\\§8§k%§d§k_§2なんだ。 長い夢の中で知る現実はほんの一部でしかない。

§3それでもプレイヤーはゲームを遊ぶんだ。

§2だけど、真実を教えることは簡単じゃないか…

§3この夢の中では厳しすぎる。 生きる方法を教えることは、生きる道を閉ざすことと同じだ。

§2だから僕は生き方を教えない。

§3プレイヤーは落ち着かなくなってきてるな。

§2なら、ある物語を教えようよ。

§3ただの物語で真実ではない。

§2そう。 辺りを焼き払ってしまうようなむき出しの真実ではなく、 言葉の檻の中に真実を優しく隠した物語。

§3もう一度プレイヤーに体を与えよう。

§2さあ、 プレイヤー…

§3その名を使うんだ。

§2PLAYERNAME。 ゲームのプレイヤーだよ。

§3では始めようか。

§2さあ、深呼吸だ。 もう一度。 胸に空気を入れてふくらませたら、 吐き出して元に戻して。 指を動かそう。 体全体で空気と重力を感じて。 君の長い 夢の中に戻るんだ。 君の全身は再び宇宙にふれている。今まではばらばらだったかのように。 まるで僕らが別々の物体であったかのように。

§3僕らは誰だろう？ 山の精霊と呼ばれたこともあった。 Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.

§2We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.

§2Once upon a time, there was a player.

§3The player was you, PLAYERNAME.

§2Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.

§2Let's go back.

§2The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.

§2And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.

§2And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.

§3You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.

§2Let's go further back.

§2The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...

§3Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".

§2Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.

§3You are the player, reading words...

§2Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive

§3You. You. You are alive.

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees

§3and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream

§3and the universe said I love you

§2and the universe said you have played the game well

§3and the universe said everything you need is within you

§2and the universe said you are stronger than you know

§3and the universe said you are the daylight

§2and the universe said you are the night

§3and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you

§2and the universe said the light you seek is within you

§3and the universe said you are not alone

§2and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing

§3and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code

§2and the universe said I love you because you are love.

§3And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.

§3You are the player.

§2Wake up.
