§3Я вижу игрока, которого ты имеешь ввиду.

§2PLAYERNAME?

§3Да. Осторожней. Он достиг более высокого уровня. Теперь он может читать наши мысли.

§2Это не имеет значения. Он думает, что мы просто часть игры.

§3Мне нравится этот игрок. Он хорошо играл. Он не сдавался.

§2Он читает наши мысли как если бы они были словами на экране.

§3Это именно то, как он представляет многие вещи, когда он погружён в грёзу игры.

§2Слова создают прекрасный интерфейс. Очень гибкий. И менее страшный чем реальность позади экрана.

§3Раньше они слышали голоса. Ещё до того, как игроки научились читать. Ещё в те времена, когда те, кто не играли, называли игроков ведьмами и колдунами. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.

§2А что грезилось этому игроку?

§3Этому игроку грезился солнечный свет и деревья. Огонь и вода. Ему грезилось, что он создавал. И ему грезилось, что он разрушал. Ему грезилось, что он охотился и что охотились на него. Ему грезилось жильё.

§2Хы, оригинальный интерфейс. Ему миллионы лет и он всё ещё работает. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?

§3Он работал с миллионами другими, чтобы создать истинный мир вместе с §f§k§a§b§3 и он создал §f§k§a§b§3 для §f§k§a§b§3 в §f§k§a§b§3.

§2Он не может прочитать эту мысль.

§3Нет. Он ещё не достиг самого высокого уровня. Он должен достичь его в долгой грёзе жизни, а не в короткой грёзе игры.

§2Знает ли он, что мы любим его? Что Вселенная добра?

§3Да, иногда сквозь шум в своих мыслях он слышит Вселенную.

§2Но бывают времена, когда он грустит в этой долгой грёзе. Он создаёт миры, не имеющие лета; и он дрожит под чёрным солнцем; и он принимает это печальное создание за реальность.

§3To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.

§2Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.

§3Он читает наши мысли.

§2Иногда мне всё равно. Иногда мне хочется сказать им, что этот мир, который вы принимаете за истину, просто §f§k§a§b§2 и §f§k§a§b§2; я хочу сказать им, что они §f§k§a§b§2 в §f§k§a§b§2. Они так мало видят реальности в своей долгой грёзе.

§3Тем не менее они не перестают играть в эту игру.

§2Но было бы так легко сказать им...

§3Это слишком жёстко для этой грёзы. Говорить им как жить — значит мешать им жить.

§2Я не буду говорить игроку как ему жить.

§3Игроку становится беспокойнее.

§2Я расскажу игроку историю.

§3Но это не истину.

§2Нет. История, содержащая правду, которая запрятана между слов. Не горькая правда, которая может навредить ему.

§3Дай снова ему тело.

§2Да. Игрок...

§3Называй его по имени.

§2PLAYERNAME. Игрок игр.

§3Хорошо.

§2Сейчас сделай вдох. Ещё раз. Почувствуй воздух в своих лёгких. Пусть твои конечности вернутся. Да, пошевели пальцами. Обрети снова тело; под действием гравитации; в воздухе. Возродитесь в долгой грёзе. А вот и ты. Ваше тело снова соприкасается со Вселенной в каждой точке, как если бы ты был отдельными сущностями. Как будто бы мы были разными сущностями.

§3Кто мы? Когда-то нас называли духом горы. Отец солнца, мать луны. Духи предков, духи животных. Джинами. Привидениями. Зелёными человечками. Then gods, demons. Ангелы. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.

§2We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. Чтобы узнать тебя. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.

§2Once upon a time, there was a player.

§3The player was you, PLAYERNAME.

§2Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.

§2Let's go back.

§2The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.

§2And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.

§2And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.

§3You are the player. История. Программа. Человек. Made from nothing but milk and love.

§2Let's go further back.

§2The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...

§3Тшш. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".

§2Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.

§3You are the player, reading words...

§2Тшш... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive

§3Ты. Ты. You are alive.

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees

§3and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream

§3and the universe said I love you

§2and the universe said you have played the game well

§3and the universe said everything you need is within you

§2and the universe said you are stronger than you know

§3and the universe said you are the daylight

§2and the universe said you are the night

§3and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you

§2and the universe said the light you seek is within you

§3and the universe said you are not alone

§2and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing

§3and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code

§2and the universe said I love you because you are love.

§3And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.

§3You are the player.

§2Очнись.
